         General Relativistic Atomic Structure Package -- GRASP2K_v1_1

	                COPYRIGHT  2012

This package is a new version of GRASP2K by
P. Jonsson, X. He, C. Froese Fischer, and I.P. Grant
Computer Physics Communication, 177, 597-622 (2007)

This package in turn, is an extension and modification of GRASP92 by
Farid Parpia, Charlotte Froese Fischer, and Ian Grant.
Computer Physics Communication, 94, 249-271 (1996)

Modifications in the new version include:
1. The njgraf library module has been replaced by the librand angular package 
   developed by G. Gaigalas
2. Coefficients of fractional parentage have been extended to j = 9/2
3. A new program jj2lsj reports composition of the wave function in LS-coupling
4. The program rlevels has been modified to report the CSF with the
   largest coefficient in an LSJ expansion
5. The bioscl2 and bioscl3 programs now produce a file of transition data
   with one record for each transition. States are identified by the total
   energy and a label of the CSF with the largest coefficient in an LSJ
   expansion
6. Adaptation to 64-bit Linux systems

Development performed by:
   Jacek Bieron              email: bieron@if.uj.edu.pl
   Charlotte Froese Fischer  email: charlotte.fischer@nist.gov
   Gediminas Gaigalas        email: gaigalas@itpa.lt
   Per Jonsson               email: per.jonsson@mah.se
   Ian Grant                 email: iangrant15@btinternet.com

Other Collaborators:
   The Computational Atomic Structure Group

                      ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This work was supported by the Chemical Sciences, Geosciences and
Biosciences Division, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Office of 
Science, U.S. Department of Energy, the Swedish Research Council, 
the Visby program of the Swedish Institute, the Polish Ministry of
Science and Higher Education (MNiSW) in the framework of the project
No.~N~N202~014140, the European Regional Development Fund in the
framework of the Polish Innovation Economy Operational Program
(contract no. POIG.02.01.00-12-023/08).


                       INSTALLATION

The package requires several environment variables to be correctly
initialized by running the shell script as described below. One such 
variable is the ${GRASP} directory for compiled code.

To install the package for gfortran follow the steps 1-3 below.
Similar procedure applies to ifort and pgf (portland).

1. Edit the shell scrip make-environment_gfort and set the path to the 
   installation directory. The changes should be done on line 12 in the
   shell script.

2. Run the shell script by issuing the command:

   source make-environment_gfort 

3. To compile go to the src directory and give the command:

   make

4. The binaries will be compiled in the grasp2K bin directory

5. The libraries will be compiled in the grasp2K lib directory

Examples of the various options that have been used on different
architectures are given in the separate file, READ_SETENV


                          NOTES

1. The jjgen program can not be compiled with the ifort compiler. 
   The Makefile for the jjgen program uses gfortran by default!

2. Compilation often depends on system architecture, operating system
   release, compiler version, version and structure of system libraries.
   We recommend options -zero -save for all compilers.
   In some cases option -static or its equivalent should be used.
3.
   Optimisation with level -O1 results in considerably faster code than
   level -O0. Higher levels ( -O2 -O3 ) are only marginally faster, and
   in some cases resulted in less stable rscf_mpi code, therefore they
   should be used with caution.


                      INSTALLATION MPI

The installation of the MPI codes depends on the computer system. MPI libraries need to be installed.
In addition the shell script make-environment_gfort (or other compiler version) may need to be adapted to the computer system(s) architecture(s).


                  RUNNING EXAMPLES SCRIPT

To run the examples script go to the subdirectory examples and run the command:

./sh_grasp2K_ex

As a consistency check the output should be compared with the files in the 
output directory.


                          MANUAL

There is a users manual in pdf in the manual directory
To run the first scripts in the manual go to the subdirectory manual/examples1
and issue the command:   

./sh_grasp2K_ex1

As a consistency check the output should be compared with the files in the 
output1 directory.


NOTE!! the scripts requires that the environment variable ${GRASP} has been set.
Thus, before running the scripts please make sure that you have run the command:

source make-environment_gfort 

or a similar command for other compilers
